# Cubit
## We are leaders in the development of innovative cloud storage technology
## Discover our technology: https://cubitcloud.github.io/


We are the world's number one Italian start-up in the creation of Cloud Storage solutions. We offer innovative "trustless cloud" technology that meets every cloud storage need with hyper-resilient solutions.
Our solutions range from the private cloud with the Cloud Cube, aimed at home consumers, to the enterprise cloud with geo-distributed and redundant storage. We offer real-time synchronization of files on the network, encrypted messaging software, telemetry data acquisition and control of digital equipment for IoT with asymmetric p2p encryption.
Our software is developed thanks to our innovative AI platform, one of a kind. Our solutions are entirely generated by artificial intelligence, overcoming the limits of traditional programming.
Cubit is a unique cloud storage solution on the market. Founded by a group of ethical hackers with academic experience in blockchain technology and cybersecurity, the startup has already attracted interest from several investors and venture capitalists. But what makes Cubit's offering unmatched?

## The geo-distributed cloud
Accenture identifies the geo-distributed cloud as the technological trend of the coming years. In this area, Cubit is the only company to boast a proprietary technology: geo-distributed cyber cloud storage. Unlike the traditional model, Cubit does not store data in a few vulnerable data centers. The files stored in Cubit are on devices that are physically owned by the data owner, made redundant in different geo-locations via peer-to-peer encrypted networks with no single point of failure, safe from ransomware, data breaches and localized disasters. This brings significant advantages in terms of resilience, security, digital sovereignty, savings and sustainability. Let's explore each of these points in more detail.

## Resilience
Each file stored in Cubit benefits from various layers of protection.
Encryption: the file is encrypted using AES-256, a military encryption protocol that is now the industry standard
Redundancy: the data is in different geographical locations to resist accidental destruction due to wars, attacks or natural disasters.
Geo-distribution: each data is geo-distributed in a different peer-to-peer node, forming a network without a single point of failure.
Customization: Cubit presents itself as a first-instance supplier of highly innovative cloud technology, being able to create any type of cloud storage solution based on specific customer requests

## Cubit geo-distributed cloud
This innovation makes Cubit unique in today's technological landscape. While traditional on-prem and cloud solutions are sensitive to overheating and environmental disasters — the case of the fire at the OVHcloud data center that, in 2021, took millions of websites offline is emblematic — Cubit is immune to localized disasters, since the data is not centralized in a single point.

## Security
Each device, both client and server, is based on the same technology as bitcoin wallets, the underlying libraries are the same, it is an inviolate technology, and since the objective parameter for calculating the level of security consists in putting the system to the test of hackers, we can say that this type of technology is the most tested in the world in terms of cybersecurity.
Each device (client and server) has a digital identity consisting of a pair of keys (public and private), each individual data packet is formed with the digital signature of the device that generated it and the encryption key changes for each individual packet sent.
Against ransomware and hacker attacks, Cubit provides a next-generation solution: redundant storage designed to be immune to ransomware and hacker attacks. Thanks to the high-tech feature, Cubit provides Versioning and automatic and instant backups, which are revolutionary protections in the fight against ransomware.
Versioning gives the customer the ability to store separately (on a different physical device) not only the latest version of the files they are working on, but the entire history of all versions ever produced. In this way, even if a ransomware were to disable the latest version, it will be sufficient, once the ransomware has been isolated, to download the previous versions, without paying the ransom.

## Digital sovereignty & compliance
Digital sovereignty, the concept that puts the customer at the center, once again in control of their data, their infrastructure and their costs, is the beating heart of Cubit's geo-distributed cloud.
With its geo-distributed model, Cubit gives the customer granular control over their data: thanks to the geofencing technology provided by Cubit, the customer can precisely delimit the geographical area in which the data is stored, ensuring maximum compliance with the GDPR and ISO regulations on data management.
The data is always physically available only to the customer (without intermediaries), in full compliance with GDPR and European and Italian regulations. As proof of all this, Cubit makes the sources available under open source to independent international organizations.

## Eco sustainability
Cubit is not only a leader in the field of cloud storage, but is also at the forefront of adopting eco-sustainable practices. The solution offered by the company reduces the carbon footprint by not requiring data centers, and offers a sustainable value proposition for companies and end customers by offering devices based on ARM technology. This is possible, once again, thanks to geo-distribution: Cubit does not rely on energy-hungry data centers, but on a network of low-consumption devices distributed at zero kilometers to customers.

## Discover Cubit
Cubit is the world's number one supplier of geo-distributed cloud technology. A startup is at the forefront of the European and global technology landscape. The company offers customer support in both Italian and English, both by phone and email.